[Bots]-[docupdate]-[1521847] (#2784)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/graph-api/proactive-bots-and-messages/graph-proactive-bots-and-messages.md

---
# Proactively install apps using graph API and send messages

>[!IMPORTANT]
> Microsoft Graph and Microsoft Teams public previews are available for early-access and feedback. Although this release has undergone extensive testing, it is not intended for use in production.

## Proactive messaging in Teams

Proactive messages are initiated by bots to start conversations with a user. They serve many purposes including sending welcome messages, conducting surveys or polls, and broadcasting organization-wide notifications. Proactive messages in Teams can be delivered as either **ad-hoc** or **dialog-based** conversations:

|Message Type | Description |
|----------------|-------------- |
|Ad-hoc proactive message| The bot interjects a message without interrupting the conversation flow.|
|Dialog-based proactive message | The bot creates a new dialog thread, takes control of a conversation, delivers the proactive message, closes, and returns control to the previous dialog.|

See, [Send proactive notifications to users SDK v4](/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-howto-proactive-message?view=azure-bot-service-4.0&tabs=csharp&preserve-view=true).

## Proactive app installation in Teams

> Before your bot can proactively message a user, it needs to be installed either as a personal app, or in a team where the user is a member. At times,  you may need to proactively message users that have not installed or previously interacted with your app. For instance, the need to message vital information to everyone in your organization. For such scenarios, you can use the Microsoft Graph API to proactively install your bot for your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before your bot can proactively message a user, it must be installed either as a personal app or in a team where the user is a member. At times, you need to proactively message users that have not installed or previously interacted with your app. For example, the need to message vital information to everyone in your organization. For such scenarios, you can use the Microsoft Graph API to proactively install your bot for your users.
```

> [!div class="checklist"]
> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> * **id**  — your Azure AD app ID.
> * **resource** — the resource URL for the app.
>
>[!NOTE]
>

> > * Your bot requires application and not user delegated permissions because the installation is for others.

Reviewer: Who are these **others** in the note?
```suggestion
> * Your bot requires *application* and not *user delegated* permissions because the installation is for others.
```

>

> > * An Azure AD tenant administrator must [explicitly grant permissions to an application](/graph/security-authorization#grant-permissions-to-an-application). After an application is granted permissions, _all_ members of the Azure AD tenant gains the granted permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * An Azure AD tenant administrator must [explicitly grant permissions to an application](/graph/security-authorization#grant-permissions-to-an-application). After an application is granted permissions, *all* members of the Azure AD tenant gain the granted permissions.
```

## Enable proactive app installation and messaging

 > [!IMPORTANT]
>Microsoft Graph can only install apps published within your organization's [app catalog](../../concepts/deploy-and-publish/overview.md#publish-to-your-organizations-app-catalog) or in [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/).

### ✔ Create and publish your proactive messaging bot for Teams

> To get started, you must need a [bot for Teams](../../bots/how-to/create-a-bot-for-teams.md) with [proactive messaging](../../concepts/bots/bot-conversations/bots-conv-proactive.md) capabilities and  [published](../../concepts/deploy-and-publish/overview.md) in your organization's [app catalog](../../concepts/deploy-and-publish/overview.md#publish-to-your-organizations-app-catalog) or in [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/).

Reviewer: Please self-review this sentence thoroughly.

>[!TIP]
> The production-ready [**Company Communicator**](../..//samples/app-templates.md#company-communicator) app template enables broadcast messaging and is a good foundation for building your proactive bot application.

### ✔ Get the `teamsAppId` for your app

> **1.** You must need the `teamsAppId` for the next steps.

Reviewer: Please check the usage of **must** throughout the document, wherever an update has been made.

GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/appCatalogs/teamsApps?$filter=externalId eq '{IdFromManifest}'
```

> The request must return a `teamsApp`  object. The returned object's `id`  is the app's catalog generated app ID and is different from the ID that you provided in your Teams app manifest:

Reviewer: usage of **must**

}
```

> If the user has Microsoft Teams running, they may see the app install immediately. Alternatively, a restart may be necessary to view the installed app.

Reviewer: **user** is singular, **they** is plural.

### ✔ Send proactive messages

> Once your bot has been added for a user or team and has acquired the necessary user information, it can begin to [send proactive messages](/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-howto-proactive-message?view=azure-bot-service-4.0&tabs=csharp&preserve-view=true).

Reviewer: Follow MSTP conventions, **Once** -->**After**
